Mr. Jones, of the Manor Farm, had locked the hen-houses for the night, butwas too drunk to remember to shut the pop-holes. With the ring of lightfrom his lantern dancing from side to side, he lurched across the yard,kicked off his boots at the back door, drew himself a last glass of beerfrom the barrel in the scullery, and made his way up to bed, whereMrs. Jones was already snoring.As soon as the light in the bedroom went out there was a stirring and afluttering all through the farm buildings. Word had gone round during theday that old Major, the prize Middle White boar, had had a strange dreamon the previous night and wished to communicate it to the other animals.It had been agreed that they should all meet in the big barn as soon asMr. Jones was safely out of the way. Old Major (so he was always called,though the name under which he had been exhibited was Willingdon Beauty)was so highly regarded on the farm that everyone was quite ready to losean hour's sleep in order to hear what he had to say.At one end of the big barn, on a sort of raised platform, Major wasalready ensconced on his bed of straw, under a lantern which hung from abeam. He was twelve years old and had lately grown rather stout, but hewas still a majestic-looking pig, with a wise and benevolent appearance inspite of the fact that his tushes had never been cut. Before long theother animals began to arrive and make themselves comfortable after theirdifferent fashions. First came the three dogs, Bluebell, Jessie, andPincher, and then the pigs, who settled down in the straw immediately infront of the platform. The hens perched themselves on the window-sills,the pigeons fluttered up to the rafters, the sheep and cows lay downbehind the pigs and began to chew the cud. The two cart-horses, Boxer andClover, came in together, walking very slowly and setting down their vasthairy hoofs with great care lest there should be some small animalconcealed in the straw. Clover was a stout motherly mare approachingmiddle life, who had never quite got her figure back after her fourth foal.Boxer was an enormous beast, nearly eighteen hands high, and as strong asany two ordinary horses put together. A white stripe down his nose gavehim a somewhat stupid appearance, and in fact he was not of first-rateintelligence, but he was universally respected for his steadiness ofcharacter and tremendous powers of work. After the horses came Muriel,the white goat, and Benjamin, the donkey. Benjamin was the oldest animalon the farm, and the worst tempered. He seldom talked, and when he did, itwas usually to make some cynical remark--for instance, he would say thatGod had given him a tail to keep the flies off, but that he would soonerhave had no tail and no flies. Alone among the animals on the farm henever laughed. If asked why, he would say that he saw nothing to laugh at.Nevertheless, without openly admitting it, he was devoted to Boxer; thetwo of them usually spent their Sundays together in the small paddockbeyond the orchard, grazing side by side and never speaking.The two horses had just lain down when a brood of ducklings, which hadlost their mother, filed into the barn, cheeping feebly and wandering fromside to side to find some place where they would not be trodden on. Clovermade a sort of wall round them with her great foreleg, and the ducklingsnestled down inside it and promptly fell asleep. At the last momentMollie, the foolish, pretty white mare who drew Mr. Jones's trap, camemincing daintily in, chewing at a lump of sugar. She took a place near thefront and began flirting her white mane, hoping to draw attention to thered ribbons it was plaited with. Last of all came the cat, who lookedround, as usual, for the warmest place, and finally squeezed herself inbetween Boxer and Clover; there she purred contentedly throughout Major'sspeech without listening to a word of what he was saying.All the animals were now present except Moses, the tame raven, who slepton a perch behind the back door. When Major saw that they had all madethemselves comfortable and were waiting attentively, he cleared his throatand began:"Comrades, you have heard already about the strange dream that I had lastnight. But I will come to the dream later. I have something else to sayfirst. I do not think, comrades, that I shall be with you for many monthslonger, and before I die, I feel it my duty to pass on to you such wisdomas I have acquired. I have had a long life, I have had much time forthought as I lay alone in my stall, and I think I may say that Iunderstand the nature of life on this earth as well as any animal nowliving. It is about this that I wish to speak to you."Now, comrades, what is the nature of this life of ours? Let us face it:our lives are miserable, laborious, and short. We are born, we are givenjust so much food as will keep the breath in our bodies, and those of uswho are capable of it are forced to work to the last atom of our strength;and the very instant that our usefulness has come to an end we areslaughtered with hideous cruelty. No animal in England knows the meaningof happiness or leisure after he is a year old. No animal in England isfree. The life of an animal is misery and slavery: that is the plain truth."But is this simply part of the order of nature? Is it because this landof ours is so poor that it cannot afford a decent life to those who dwellupon it? No, comrades, a thousand times no! The soil of England isfertile, its climate is good, it is capable of affording food in abundanceto an enormously greater number of animals than now inhabit it. Thissingle farm of ours would support a dozen horses, twenty cows, hundreds ofsheep--and all of them living in a comfort and a dignity that are nowalmost beyond our imagining. Why then do we continue in this miserablecondition? Because nearly the whole of the produce of our labour is stolenfrom us by human beings. There, comrades, is the answer to all ourproblems. It is summed up in a single word--Man. Man is the only realenemy we have. Remove Man from the scene, and the root cause of hunger andoverwork is abolished for ever."Man is the only creature that consumes without producing. He does notgive milk, he does not lay eggs, he is too weak to pull the plough, hecannot run fast enough to catch rabbits. Yet he is lord of all theanimals. He sets them to work, he gives back to them the bare minimum thatwill prevent them from starving, and the rest he keeps for himself. Ourlabour tills the soil, our dung fertilises it, and yet there is not one ofus that owns more than his bare skin. You cows that I see before me, howmany thousands of gallons of milk have you given during this last year?And what has happened to that milk which should have been breeding upsturdy calves? Every drop of it has gone down the throats of our enemies.And you hens, how many eggs have you laid in this last year, and how manyof those eggs ever hatched into chickens? The rest have all gone to marketto bring in money for Jones and his men. And you, Clover, where are thosefour foals you bore, who should have been the support and pleasure of yourold age? Each was sold at a year old--you will never see one of themagain. In return for your four confinements and all your labour in thefields, what have you ever had except your bare rations and a stall?"And even the miserable lives we lead are not allowed to reach theirnatural span. For myself I do not grumble, for I am one of the lucky ones.I am twelve years old and have had over four hundred children. Such is thenatural life of a pig. But no animal escapes the cruel knife in the end.You young porkers who are sitting in front of me, every one of you willscream your lives out at the block within a year. To that horror we allmust come--cows, pigs, hens, sheep, everyone. Even the horses and the dogshave no better fate. You, Boxer, the very day that those great muscles ofyours lose their power, Jones will sell you to the knacker, who will cutyour throat and boil you down for the foxhounds. As for the dogs, whenthey grow old and toothless, Jones ties a brick round their necks anddrowns them in the nearest pond."Is it not crystal clear, then, comrades, that all the evils of this lifeof ours spring from the tyranny of human beings? Only get rid of Man, andthe produce of our labour would be our own. Almost overnight we couldbecome rich and free. What then must we do? Why, work night and day, bodyand soul, for the overthrow of the human race! That is my message to you,comrades: Rebellion! I do not know when that Rebellion will come, it mightbe in a week or in a hundred years, but I know, as surely as I see thisstraw beneath my feet, that sooner or later justice will be done. Fix youreyes on that, comrades, throughout the short remainder of your lives! Andabove all, pass on this message of mine to those who come after you, sothat future generations shall carry on the struggle until it is victorious."And remember, comrades, your resolution must never falter. No argumentmust lead you astray. Never listen when they tell you that Man and theanimals have a common interest, that the prosperity of the one is theprosperity of the others. It is all lies. Man serves the interests of nocreature except himself. And among us animals let there be perfect unity,perfect comradeship in the struggle. All men are enemies. All animals arecomrades."At this moment there was a tremendous uproar. While Major was speakingfour large rats had crept out of their holes and were sitting on theirhindquarters, listening to him. The dogs had suddenly caught sight ofthem, and it was only by a swift dash for their holes that the rats savedtheir lives. Major raised his trotter for silence."Comrades," he said, "here is a point that must be settled. The wildcreatures, such as rats and rabbits--are they our friends or our enemies?Let us put it to the vote. I propose this question to the meeting: Arerats comrades?"The vote was taken at once, and it was agreed by an overwhelming majoritythat rats were comrades. There were only four dissentients, the three dogsand the cat, who was afterwards discovered to have voted on both sides.Major continued:"I have little more to say. I merely repeat, remember always your duty ofenmity towards Man and all his ways. Whatever goes upon two legs is anenemy. Whatever goes upon four legs, or has wings, is a friend. Andremember also that in fighting against Man, we must not come to resemblehim. Even when you have conquered him, do not adopt his vices. No animalmust ever live in a house, or sleep in a bed, or wear clothes, or drinkalcohol, or smoke tobacco, or touch money, or engage in trade. All thehabits of Man are evil. And, above all, no animal must ever tyrannise overhis own kind. Weak or strong, clever or simple, we are all brothers. Noanimal must ever kill any other animal. All animals are equal."And now, comrades, I will tell you about my dream of last night. I cannotdescribe that dream to you. It was a dream of the earth as it will be whenMan has vanished. But it reminded me of something that I had longforgotten. Many years ago, when I was a little pig, my mother and theother sows used to sing an old song of which they knew only the tune andthe first three words. I had known that tune in my infancy, but it hadlong since passed out of my mind. Last night, however, it came back to mein my dream. And what is more, the words of the song also came back-words,I am certain, which were sung by the animals of long ago and have beenlost to memory for generations. I will sing you that song now, comrades.I am old and my voice is hoarse, but when I have taught you the tune, youcan sing it better for yourselves. It is called 'Beasts of England'."Old Major cleared his throat and began to sing. As he had said, his voicewas hoarse, but he sang well enough, and it was a stirring tune, somethingbetween 'Clementine' and 'La Cucaracha'. The words ran:Beasts of England, beasts of Ireland,Beasts of every land and clime,Hearken to my joyful tidingsOf the golden future time.Soon or late the day is coming,Tyrant Man shall be o'erthrown,And the fruitful fields of EnglandShall be trod by beasts alone.Rings shall vanish from our noses,And the harness from our back,Bit and spur shall rust forever,Cruel whips no more shall crack.Riches more than mind can picture,Wheat and barley, oats and hay,Clover, beans, and mangel-wurzelsShall be ours upon that day.Bright will shine the fields of England,Purer shall its waters be,Sweeter yet shall blow its breezesOn the day that sets us free.For that day we all must labour,Though we die before it break;Cows and horses, geese and turkeys,All must toil for freedom's sake.Beasts of England, beasts of Ireland,Beasts of every land and clime,Hearken well and spread my tidingsOf the golden future time.The singing of this song threw the animals into the wildest excitement.Almost before Major had reached the end, they had begun singing it forthemselves. Even the stupidest of them had already picked up the tune anda few of the words, and as for the clever ones, such as the pigs and dogs,they had the entire song by heart within a few minutes. And then, after afew preliminary tries, the whole farm burst out into 'Beasts of England' intremendous unison. The cows lowed it, the dogs whined it, the sheepbleated it, the horses whinnied it, the ducks quacked it. They were sodelighted with the song that they sang it right through five times insuccession, and might have continued singing it all night if they had notbeen interrupted.Unfortunately, the uproar awoke Mr. Jones, who sprang out of bed, makingsure that there was a fox in the yard. He seized the gun which alwaysstood in a corner of his bedroom, and let fly a charge of number 6 shotinto the darkness. The pellets buried themselves in the wall of the barnand the meeting broke up hurriedly. Everyone fled to his ownsleeping-place. The birds jumped on to their perches, the animals settleddown in the straw, and the whole farm was asleep in a moment.